Add release notes for 3.0rc1 (#13712)
PrefectHQ/prefect: RELEASE-NOTES.md

- Remove `VertexAICustomTrainingJob` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13419
- Remove `CloudRunJob` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13420
- Remove infrastructure blocks from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13424
- Remove `Infrastructure`, `BlockWorker` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13430
- Remove deprecated storage blocks from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13410
- Remove `prefect-agent` as a possible work pool type — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13444
- Bye bye old engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13542

### Exciting New Features 🎉
- Create and manage automations in the UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13293
- Add Event Feed and Event pages to the ui — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13521

### Enhancements
- Create artifact for unsuccessful dbt task runs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13348
- prefect-dbt artifact consolidation and markdown fixes — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13379
- prefect-dbt - Cause unsuccessful dbt tasks to fail — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13405

> - [New Engine] Add the ability to map tasks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13431

Reviewer: Amazing 🙌

- Allow block registration to use client schemas for server model creation — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13602
- Replace our customized `Duration` types with plain `timedelta`s — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13603
- Remove dependencies from previously vendored starlette — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13600
- Remove old task runners and futures modules — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13593
- Correcting API schemas to maintain compatibility with Cloud — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13623
- Add _sync flag to sync compatible fns — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13627
- Update `apply_async` interface to mirror `multiprocessing` equivalent — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13643
- Bringing back the integration tests — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13645
- Update task server to run received tasks concurrently — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13653
- Disable the automations-assessment test for Prefect Cloud — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13659
- migrate `prefect-github` to pydantic v2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13655

> - migrate `prefect-gitlab` to pydantic v2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13656

Reviewer: probably these all can go to the Integrations heading

- Allows us to run integration package unit tests by adding a PR label — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13665
- Adjustments to make sure that the client build still works — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13682
- Add ability to limit concurrent runs for a task server — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13662
- Mark tasks as being `deferred` when using `apply_async` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13681
- migrate `prefect-gcp` to pydantic 2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13650
- removing references to deprecated block types, adding disclaimer — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13651
- migrate `prefect-shell` to pydantic 2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13675
- Add a naive distributed future — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13611
- Small Transaction refactor — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13692
- adding in empty state import — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13696
- Add Task.delay() — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13695
- Simplify rate limits page — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13689

> ## New Contributors
> * @jaraics made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13144
> * @mitchnielsen made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13562

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: we can probably just have one section for this, when we have both new and regular contributors

### Integrations

> ### Contributors
> - @bsignoret
> - @jaraics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Contributors
- @bsignoret
* @jaraics made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13144
```

> **All changes**: https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/compare/2.19.0...preview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**All changes**: https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/compare/2.19.0...3.0rc1
```
or something like that

- Record spec — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13572
- Update `RayTaskRunner` for compatibility with new engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13575
- adding note on artifact retention — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13592
- Refactor to match transaction keys to storage keys — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13582
- Updates background task creation to avoid use of old engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13589
- V2 schemas — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13574
- Allow block registration to use client schemas for server model creation — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13602
- Replace our customized `Duration` types with plain `timedelta`s — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13603
- Remove dependencies from previously vendored starlette — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13600
- Remove old task runners and futures modules — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13593
- Correcting API schemas to maintain compatibility with Cloud — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13623
- Add _sync flag to sync compatible fns — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13627

> - Bumping compatibility tests to latest on main — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13635

Reviewer: probably should have a `maintenance` label (and would not be included then)

- Update `apply_async` interface to mirror `multiprocessing` equivalent — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13643
- Bringing back the integration tests — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13645
- Update task server to run received tasks concurrently — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13653
- Disable the automations-assessment test for Prefect Cloud — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13659
- migrate `prefect-github` to pydantic v2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13655
- migrate `prefect-gitlab` to pydantic v2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13656

> - Bumping compat-tests — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13671

Reviewer: also `maintenance`

- Migrating all uses of the banned characters validation to a self-validator — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13370
- Fixing stray files from the test suite, with a utility to notify us about them — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13380
- Removes an unused/deprecated parameter from CodeQL checks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13390
- Remove references to prefect.software from docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13382
- Edit review of Execution section — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13253
- Removes block auto-instrumentation — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13407
- Disable integration tests for main — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13409
- Remove deprecated storage blocks from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13410
- Remove private run methods — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13414
- Add autouse fixture to modify cwd — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13416
- Update sync compat in preparation for new engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13438
- More test prep — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13449

> - Remove `prefect-agent` as a possible work pool type — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13444

Reviewer: this is also breaking

- More test progress — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13452
- New engine logging — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13450
- Flow run names and engine tests — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13454
- Feature: Runs page — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13395
- Revert "Replace `declarative_mixin` with `DeclarativeBase` for all models" — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13471
- Restore "Replace `declarative_mixin` with `DeclarativeBase` for all models" — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13472
- Fix deployments in the new engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13484
- [New Engine] Add support for `on_crashed`, `on_cancellation`, and `on_running` hooks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13480
- Enable new engine experimental setting by default — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13477
- Task Hook decorators — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13534
- Flow hook decorators — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13535

> - Bye bye old engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13542

Reviewer: breaking, I think?

- Bumping compatibility tests to latest on main — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13635
- Update `apply_async` interface to mirror `multiprocessing` equivalent — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13643
- Bringing back the integration tests — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13645
- Update task server to run received tasks concurrently — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13653
- Disable the automations-assessment test for Prefect Cloud — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13659
- migrate `prefect-github` to pydantic v2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13655
- migrate `prefect-gitlab` to pydantic v2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13656
- Bumping compat-tests — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13671
- Add a Join the Community CTA — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13668
- migrate `prefect-email` to pydantic2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13654
- migrate `prefect-slack` to pydantic 2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13673
- Allows us to run integration package unit tests by adding a PR label — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13665

> - Add release notes for 2.19.3 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13677

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Add ability to limit concurrent runs for a task server — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13662
- Mark tasks as being `deferred` when using `apply_async` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13681
- migrate `prefect-gcp` to pydantic 2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13650
- removing references to deprecated block types, adding disclaimer — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13651
- migrate `prefect-shell` to pydantic 2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13675
- Add a naive distributed future — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13611
- Small Transaction refactor — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13692
- adding in empty state import — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13696
- Add Task.delay() — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13695
- Simplify rate limits page — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13689

## New Contributors
* @jaraics made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13144
* @mitchnielsen made their first contribution in https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13562
### Integrations

### Contributors

> - @bsignoret
> - @cicdw
> - @jaraics
> - @mitchnielsen
> - @stellardave

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- @bsignoret
- @jaraics
```

removes prefectionists and stellar

if __name__ == "__main__":
    my_background_task.delay("ford")
```

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13695
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13692
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13681
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13662
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13653
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13643
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13589
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13684
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13676
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13276
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13611
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13547

### Transactional semantics - Rollback and commit hooks that facilitate idempotent python code

```python
from prefect import flow, task
from prefect.transactions import transaction
@task
def first_task():
    print('first')

@first_task.on_rollback
def roll(txn):
    print('rolling back')

@task
def second_task():
    raise RuntimeError("oopsie")

@flow
def txn_flow():
    with transaction():
        first_task()
        second_task()
if __name__ == "__main__":

>     txn_flow()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    txn_flow()
    ```
```

> 

Reviewer: this needs triple backticks to end python formatting

- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13450
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13484
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13454
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13477
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13431
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13264
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13337
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13456
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13572
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13582
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13627
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13568
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13438
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13573
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13578
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13414

### Open source Events and Automations - Trigger actions, such as sending notifications, pausing schedules, starting flow runs and more in response to Prefect events.

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13293
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13521
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13335

> ### More flexible variables and new artifact types - Variables can now be any JSON compatible type including dicts, lists, and integers. Progress and Image artifacts make it easy to add visual annotations to your flow run graph.

Reviewer: When rendered, it looks a bit odd to be including the highlight sentence in the heading to me

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13500
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13520
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13469
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13641
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13605

### Faster and richer CLI

Improved CLI speed and several added commands and conveniences.

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13292
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13596
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13606
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13533

### Updated navigation, styling, and interaction design - The new Runs page displays both flow and task run information, and an improved sidebar and switcher makes navigating Prefect simpler than ever.

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13395
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13280
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13696
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13668

> ### Bug fixes and quality of life improvements

Reviewer: what is this for?

- Migrate `prefect-gcp` to pydantic 2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13650
- Migrate `prefect-github` to pydantic v2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13655
- Migrate `prefect-gitlab` to pydantic v2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13656
- Add `PrefectDistributedClient` to `prefect-dask` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13537
- Update `RayTaskRunner` for compatibility with new engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13575
- Update `DaskTaskRunner` for compatibility with the updated engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13555
- prefect-dbt artifact consolidation and markdown fixes — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13379
- prefect-dbt - Cause unsuccessful dbt tasks to fail — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13405
- DBT Tasks extra_command_args Fix — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13308
- Update dbt-core dependency — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13394

### Breaking Changes
- Remove `prefect deployment build` CLI from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13366
- Remove `prefect agent` CLI from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13365

> - Remove prefect `deployment apply` CLI from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13367

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove `prefect deployment apply` CLI from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13367
```

- Remove `PrefectAgent` class — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13374

> - Remove prefect.software — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13375

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove `prefect.software` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13375
```

- Remove `deployments` module — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13373
- Remove `EcsTask` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13417
- Remove `AzureContainerInstanceJob` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13418
- Remove `VertexAICustomTrainingJob` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13419
- Remove `CloudRunJob` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13420
- Remove infrastructure blocks from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13424
- Remove `Infrastructure`, `BlockWorker` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13430
- Remove deprecated storage blocks from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13410
- Remove `prefect-agent` as a possible work pool type — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13444

> - Bye bye old engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13542

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove old engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13542
```

- Remove Python 3.8 support — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13331
- Remove `deprecated` module and its references — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13345
- Remove old task runners and futures modules — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13593

> - Remove is_state — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13569

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove `is_state` utility — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13569
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 3.0rc1

> We're excited to announce the release candidate of Prefect 3.0. It's the most flexible, powerful, fastest version of Prefect yet. Prefect 3.0 includes several exciting new features. Install it by running pip install prefect==3.0rc1 and check out the docs [here](https://docs-3.prefect.io/3.0rc/getting-started/index).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're excited to announce the release candidate of Prefect 3.0. It's the most flexible, powerful, fastest version of Prefect yet. Prefect 3.0 includes several exciting new features. Install it by running `pip install prefect==3.0rc1` and check out the docs [here](https://docs-3.prefect.io/3.0rc/getting-started/index).
```

### Run tasks independently of flows
You can now run, serve, and submit tasks outside of flows and inside of other tasks.

```python
from prefect import task

@task
def my_background_task(name: str):
    print(f"Hello, {name}!")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    my_background_task.delay("ford")
```

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13695
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13692
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13681
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13662
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13653
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13643
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13589
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13684
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13676
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13276
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13611
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13547

### Transactional semantics

> Rollback and commit hooks that facilitate idempotent python code

Reviewer: it might be nice for this one to be in a sentence format like the other highlights

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
from prefect import flow, task
from prefect.transactions import transaction
```

a working example could be nice for this new concept

@task
def first_task():
    print('first')

@first_task.on_rollback
def roll(txn):
    print('rolling back')

@task
def second_task():
    raise RuntimeError("oopsie")

@flow
def txn_flow():
    with transaction():
        first_task()
        second_task()

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if __name__ == "__main__":
    txn_flow()
```
```

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13559
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13534
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13535
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13480
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13452
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13450
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13484
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13454
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13477
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13431
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13264
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13337
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13456
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13572
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13582
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13627
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13568
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13438
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13573
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13578
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13414

### Open source Events and Automations

> Trigger actions such as notifications, orchestration actions, or API calls in response to Prefect or external events.

Author: ```suggestion
Trigger actions, such as sending notifications, pausing schedules, starting flow runs and more in response to Prefect events.
```

- Remove unused settings/experimental work pool flags: `PREFECT_EXPERIMENTAL_ENABLE_WORK_POOLS` and `PREFECT_EXPERIMENTAL_WARN_WORK_POOLS` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13144
- Pin `pydantic>=2.7` for `Secret` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13613
- Skip on cancellation hooks if runner can't load flow — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13660
- Refactor lazy imports to avoid accidental eager imports — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13296
- Allow block registration to use client schemas for server model creation — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13602
- Replace our customized `Duration` types with plain `timedelta`s — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13603

### Experimental
- Add `prefect.yaml` and cli support for new schedule fields — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13318

### Documentation
- Transition documentation hosting from Netlify to Mintlify — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13634
- Add Python 3.12 to list of Docker images — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13321
- Update `index.md` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13353

> - Tutorial section docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13297

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve tutorial section — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13297
```

- Fix jinja template in automations doc — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13422
- Edit of development section docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13247
- Update Ray integration docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13467
- Update Variables docs to include JSON types — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13493
- Update quickstart guide for usability — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13562
- Remove `deployments-block-based` concept page and refs for 3.0 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13626
- Remove `infrastructure` concept page and refs for 3.0 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13629
- Update docs image paths and remove outdated images — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13666

> - Remove references to prefect.software from docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13382

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove references to `prefect.software` from docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13382
```

### Run tasks independently of flows

You can now run, serve, and submit tasks outside of flows and inside of other tasks.

```python
from prefect import task

@task
def my_background_task(name: str):
    print(f"Hello, {name}!")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    my_background_task.delay("ford")
```

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13695
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13692
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13681
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13662
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13653
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13643
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13589
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13684
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13676
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13276
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13611
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13547
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13706

### Transactional semantics

> Rollback and commit hooks that facilitate idempotent python code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use rollback and commit hooks to facilitate idempotent python code
```

- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13723

### Enhancements
- Create artifact for unsuccessful dbt task runs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13348
- Add filter on `task_run.expected_start_time` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13491
- Add utilities to serialize context to a dictionary and hydrate context from a dictionary — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13529
- Add API endpoints for deployment count and next flow run — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13544
- Allow flow parameter schema generation when dependencies are missing — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13315
- Change the default value for `enforce_parameter_schema` from `False` to `True` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13594
- Migrate schemas to pydantic v2 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13574
- Removes block auto-instrumentation — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13407
- Migrate all uses of the banned characters validation to a self-validator — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13370
- Ignore and warn on unrecognized settings - https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13624

### Fixes

> - Remove unnecessary flow run infra override access checks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13401

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove unnecessary flow run infrastructure override access checks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13401
```

> - Enforce False case for flow run id is null — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13464

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enforce False case when flow run id is null — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13464
```

- Pin `pydantic>=2.7` for `Secret` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13613
- Skip on cancellation hooks if runner can't load flow — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13660
- Refactor lazy imports to avoid accidental eager imports — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13296
- Allow block registration to use client schemas for server model creation — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13602
- Replace our customized `Duration` types with plain `timedelta`s — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13603

### Experimental
- Add `prefect.yaml` and cli support for new schedule fields — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13318

### Documentation
- Transition documentation hosting from Netlify to Mintlify — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13634
- Add Python 3.12 to list of Docker images — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13321
- Update `index.md` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13353
- Improve tutorial section — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13297
- Fix jinja template in automations doc — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13422

> - Edit of development section docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13247

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update development section docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13247
```

- Update Ray integration docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13467
- Update Variables docs to include JSON types — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13493
- Update quickstart guide for usability — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13562
- Remove `deployments-block-based` concept page and refs for 3.0 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13626
- Remove `infrastructure` concept page and refs for 3.0 — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13629
- Update docs image paths and remove outdated images — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13666
- Remove references to `prefect.software` from docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13382
- Update `host.md` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13351
- Simplify rate limits page — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13689
- Removing references to deprecated block types and add disclaimer — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13651

> - Edit review of Execution section — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13253

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update guides — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13253
```

- Remove `prefect agent` CLI from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13365
- Remove `prefect deployment apply` CLI from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13367
- Remove `PrefectAgent` class — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13374
- Remove `prefect.software` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13375
- Remove `deployments` module — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13373
- Remove `EcsTask` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13417
- Remove `AzureContainerInstanceJob` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13418
- Remove `VertexAICustomTrainingJob` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13419
- Remove `CloudRunJob` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13420
- Remove infrastructure blocks from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13424
- Remove `Infrastructure`, `BlockWorker` from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13430
- Remove deprecated storage blocks from `main` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13410
- Remove `prefect-agent` as a possible work pool type — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13444

> - Bye bye old engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13542

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove old engine — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13542
```

- Remove Python 3.8 support — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13331
- Remove `deprecated` module and its references — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13345
- Remove old task runners and futures modules — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13593

> - Remove is_state — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13569

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove `is_state` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13569
```

We're excited to announce the release candidate of Prefect 3.0. This version of Prefect is our best, most flexible, and fastest yet, and introduces or newly open sources several exciting new features. Install it by running pip install prefect==3.0rc1 and check out the docs [here](https://docs-3.prefect.io/3.0rc/getting-started/index).

### Autonomous tasks 
Users can now run, serve, and submit tasks outside of flows and inside of other tasks.

```python
from prefect import task

@task
def my_background_task(name: str):
    print(f"Hello, {name}!")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    my_background_task.delay("ford")
```

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13695
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13692
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13681
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13662
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13653
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13643
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13589
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13684
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13676
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13276

> ### Transactional orchestration SDK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Transactional semantics
```

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13500
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13520
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13469
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13641
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13605

### Faster and better CLI

Improved CLI speed and several added commands and conveniences.

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13292
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13596
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13606
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13533

### Updated navigation, styling, and interaction design

A new runs page displays flow and task run executions, and an improved sidebar and switcher makes navigating the app simpler than ever.

See the following pull requests for implementation details:
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13395
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13280
- https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13696

### Many bug fixes and quality of life improvements

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- Create and manage automations in the UI — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13293
- Add Event Feed and Event pages to the ui — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13521

### Enhancements
- Create artifact for unsuccessful dbt task runs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13348

> - Add filter on task_run.expected_start_time — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13491

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add filter on `task_run.expected_start_time` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13491
```

- Add utilities to serialize context to a dictionary and hydrate context from a dictionary — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13529

> - Add flow UI endpoints for deployment count and next run — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13544

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add API endpoints for deployment count and next flow run — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13544
```

- Allow flow parameter schema generation when dependencies are missing — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13315
- Change the default value for `enforce_parameter_schema` from `False` to `True` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13594

### Fixes

> - Remove old flow run infra override access checks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13401

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Remove unnecessary flow run infra override access checks — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13401
```

- Enforce False case for flow run id is null — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13464
- Fix workspace variable hydration to allow for JSON data — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13548

> - Clean up unused settings/experimental workpool flags PREFECT_EXPERIMENTAL_ENABLE_WORK_POOLS and PREFECT_EXPERIMENTAL_WARN_WORK_POOLS — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13144

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Remove unused settings/experimental work pool flags: `PREFECT_EXPERIMENTAL_ENABLE_WORK_POOLS` and `PREFECT_EXPERIMENTAL_WARN_WORK_POOLS` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13144
```

- Pin `pydantic>=2.7` for `Secret` — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13613
- Skip on cancellation hooks if runner can't load flow — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13660
- Refactor lazy imports to avoid accidental eager imports — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13296

### Experimental
- Add `prefect.yaml` and cli support for new schedule fields — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13318

### Documentation
- Change docs to Mintlify — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13634

> - Add Python 3.12 to list of Docker images in docs — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13321

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add Python 3.12 to list of Docker images — https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect/pull/13321
```

# Prefect Release Notes

## Release 3.0rc1

> We're excited to announce the release candidate of Prefect 3.0. This version of Prefect is our best, most flexible, and fastest yet, and introduces or newly open sources several exciting new features. Install it by running pip install prefect==3.0rc1 and check out the docs [here](https://docs-3.prefect.io/3.0rc/getting-started/index).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're excited to announce the release candidate of Prefect 3.0. It's the most flexible, powerful, fastest version of Prefect yet. Prefect 3.0 open sources several exciting new features. Install it by running pip install prefect==3.0rc1 and check out the docs [here](https://docs-3.prefect.io/3.0rc/getting-started/index).
```

### Autonomous tasks 

> Users can now run, serve, and submit tasks outside of flows and inside of other tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now run, serve, and submit tasks outside of flows and inside of other tasks.
```
